[Release] Groom changelog /1.16.0 beta.1 (#4511)
Azure/communication-ui-library: packages/communication-react/CHANGELOG.beta.md

<!-- Start content -->

## [1.16.0-beta.1](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/tree/1.16.0-beta.1)

Tue, 23 Apr 2024 17:54:31 GMT
[Compare changes](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/compare/1.16.0...1.16.0-beta.1)

### Features

### Rich Text Editor - Public Preview

> The Web UI RichTextSendBox and MessageThread components now support rich text formatting to generate HTML content for chat messages. This feature includes support for: Different text styles (bold, italic and underline)Bulleted and numbered listsChanging indentation for textAdding and updating tables

Reviewer: Could you update the format to include a list of the supported functionality, like:
```suggestion
The Web UI RichTextSendBox and MessageThread components now support rich text formatting to generate HTML content for chat messages. This feature includes support for: 
- Different text styles (bold, italic and underline)
- Bulleted and numbered lists
- Changing indentation for text
- Adding and updating tables
```

### Closed Captions - Public Preview

We are excited to announce that Azure Communications Services has recently added the Closed Captions feature. With closed captions, developers can provide a textual representation of the audio content in their videos, making it easier for users who are deaf or hard of hearing to follow along. Developers can enable this functionality today through our composites (e.g CallComposite, CallWithChatComposite). Azure Communications Services Closed Captions supports: Enable and disable closed captions in the call, Change spoken language, Being able to use captions outside of teams scenario

### Improvements

> - Renamed "file" to "attachment" for File Sharing Upload Flow ([PR #4369](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4369) by 109105353+jpeng-ms@users.noreply.github.com)

Reviewer: Every changelog item should be started from noun or V1 (verb in the base form) to be consistent with the previous releases. It looks like mostly V2 are used in this release changelog

Author: Will update to the correct grammar

- Disable keyboard ([PR #4349](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4349) by 93549644+ShaunaSong@users.noreply.github.com)
- Fix an issue where all messages were re-rendered when a new message was sent ([PR #4451](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4451) by 98852890+vhuseinova-msft@users.noreply.github.com)
- Improve detecting if camera permission is available by using Permissions API in the StatefulCallClient ([PR #4472](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4472) by 2684369+JamesBurnside@users.noreply.github.com)
- Fixed Upload Issue in Chat Sample App ([PR #4487](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4487) by 109105353+jpeng-ms@users.noreply.github.com)
- ACS captions should not shown for stable/beta release ([PR #4356](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4356) by 96077406+carocao-msft@users.noreply.github.com)
- Fix bug where captions stuck at bottom ([PR #4462](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4462) by 96077406+carocao-msft@users.noreply.github.com)

> - Reaction animation inconsistency for presentaiton mode burse case fixed. ([PR #4370](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4370) by mbellah@microsoft.com)

Reviewer: Should we include this too?

Author: Will double check if reactions are in beta

- Aria label for sidepane header ([PR #4475](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4475) by edwardlee@microsoft.com)
- Fix issue where android user's videos would not be on when joining the call caused by a stream change ([PR #4461](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4461) by 94866715+dmceachernmsft@users.noreply.github.com)

> - Changing the order of the reaction animation appearance. ([PR #4368](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4368) by mbellah@microsoft.com)

Reviewer: Should we include this too?

Author: Will double check if reactions are in beta

- fix local tile switcher action ([PR #4447](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4447) by 94866715+dmceachernmsft@users.noreply.github.com)
- Fix position of raised hand icon in video tiles ([PR #4453](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4453) by 79475487+mgamis-msft@users.noreply.github.com)

> - Fix exception thrown when joining an Teams Interop meeting that has an unsupported chat thread ([PR #4482](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4482) by 2684369+JamesBurnside@users.noreply.github.com)

Reviewer: Should we include this too?

- remove the pptlive ([PR #4374](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4374) by 93549644+ShaunaSong@users.noreply.github.com)
- Remove CC for Capabilities ([PR #4408](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4408) by 97124699+prabhjot-msft@users.noreply.github.com)

> - Fix default constant maxWidth value for fluent chat components ([PR #4510](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4510) by 98852890+vhuseinova-msft@users.noreply.github.com)

Reviewer: THis one probably needs to be included in the release list

- Update button label rem size to fit shorter text ([PR #4460](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4460) by edwardlee@microsoft.com)
- Allowing capability changes only in connected screen ([PR #4409](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4409) by mbellah@microsoft.com)
- Reaction button background color fixes on click ([PR #4407](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4407) by mbellah@microsoft.com)
- add adapter options to JS bundles ([PR #4486](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4486) by dmceachern@microsoft.com)
- Remove PPTLive overlay ([PR #4446](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4446) by 93549644+ShaunaSong@users.noreply.github.com)
- Add Chat Attachments in Live Messages ([PR #4438](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4438) by 109105353+jpeng-ms@users.noreply.github.com)
- Update caption logic to only process current speaker and ignore interceptors until the current speaker stops talking ([PR #4488](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4488) by 96077406+carocao-msft@users.noreply.github.com)

> - Solving reaction out of screen viewport issue ([PR #4412](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4412) by mbellah@microsoft.com)

Reviewer: Should we include this too?

> - Added Missing File Sharing Exports ([PR #4419](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4419) by 109105353+jpeng-ms@users.noreply.github.com)

Reviewer: Do we need this? (If this is the first PR that includes refactoring)

- Allowed capability changes only in connected screen ([PR #4409](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4409) by mbellah@microsoft.com)
- Fixed Reaction button background color fixes on click ([PR #4407](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4407) by mbellah@microsoft.com)
- Added adapter options to JS bundles ([PR #4486](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4486) by dmceachern@microsoft.com)
- Removed PPTLive overlay ([PR #4446](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4446) by 93549644+ShaunaSong@users.noreply.github.com)
- Added Chat Attachments in Live Messages ([PR #4438](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4438) by 109105353+jpeng-ms@users.noreply.github.com)
- Added Missing File Sharing Exports ([PR #4419](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4419) by 109105353+jpeng-ms@users.noreply.github.com)
- Fix VideoGallery to not use optimal video count when there are no remote videos on ([PR #4364](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4364) by 79475487+mgamis-msft@users.noreply.github.com)

> - Update communication-chat to 1.5.0-beta.2 ([PR #4445](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4445) by 3941071+emlynmac@users.noreply.github.com)

Reviewer: Should we include this too?

- Fix position of raised hand icon in video tiles ([PR #4453](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4453) by 79475487+mgamis-msft@users.noreply.github.com)
- Fix Screen Reader Reads `&nbsp;` ([PR #4500](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4500) by 109105353+jpeng-ms@users.noreply.github.com)
- Fix VideoTile MeetingReactionOverlay corner missing rounded style ([PR #4413](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4413) by mbellah@microsoft.com)
- Update button label rem size to fit shorter text ([PR #4460](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4460) by edwardlee@microsoft.com)
- Allow capability changes only in connected screen ([PR #4409](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4409) by mbellah@microsoft.com)
- Fix Reaction button background color fixes on click ([PR #4407](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4407) by mbellah@microsoft.com)
- Add adapter options to JS bundles ([PR #4486](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4486) by dmceachern@microsoft.com)

> - Removed PPTLive overlay ([PR #4446](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4446) by 93549644+ShaunaSong@users.noreply.github.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove PPTLive overlay ([PR #4446](https://github.com/azure/communication-ui-library/pull/4446) by 93549644+ShaunaSong@users.noreply.github.com)
```
